So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
get ready to deploy this thing,
because what's the point of making an API
if you're not going to go live with it.
So let's get ready to do that.
Some of the things that we
need to do to deploy this API
are actually not a lot surprisingly.
We actually did all the hard work already.
I knew that I was going to deploy this so
I made sure that we did things that
were going to be simple when
it came time to deploy.
There's only a few things we need to do.
But let's think about
what it means to deploy.
So what does it actually mean to take
an API from your computer and deploy it?
Well, your computer,
which is technically a server and
is probably connected to the Internet.
So far we've only been running
on local hosts, right?
Like your app is running on local host,
which is your computer.
So when you make a request to the local
host, you're just going out and
coming back and
making a request to your own computer.
That's cool and everything but
the rest of the world can't see this.
If you have some website, if you change
log app that you're probably going to make
is gonna be on host on Netlify.
How is he going to access local host?
It can't.
It's a private network that's
bound to your computer.
We have to get it to the internet and
give it a public address.
We have to give it a mailing address
just like a house would have.
Only way to do that is to put it
on a computer that's always on and
strong enough to handle the request
that you are expecting to have and
it's connected to the internet,
hopefully very, very fast internet that's
plugged in with an ethernet cable on that
Wi-Fi, okay, do you want to go buy those?
Do you wanna go buy those servers and
put them in your house?
Probably not.
So what you do is you rent servers online.
That's is what a hosting provider is,
is you renting someone's server or
a space on their server to put your
files on so they can always be online.
That's what it means to deploy.
Taking my files,
I'm taking them to the servers and
I'm gonna pay them a monthly fee of in it.
The stronger the computer you want,
the more of the computer you want,
the type of the computer you want
determines how much money you pay and
the resources that you need.
So when you hear someone say we wanna
deploy, we wanna go to production.
That's what they're talking about.
They want the world to see it.
They wanna get it off their machine and
connected to the internet and
most likely pay someone to
rent their server space.
Unless you're, just badass and you have
your own server rack at home where
you host all your things like
that's cool too, but probably not.
Okay, so
we're gonna be deploying on render.com.
So definitely head over there
when you can and make an account.
In the meantime we only need to
make some small changes here.
One thing is during development
we've been using ts-node which
runs our app in memory, but I mean,
yeah, you could run ts-node in
production although there's
really no good reason to, right?
There's no good reason to have that memory
overhead of some process keeping track of
cache files, just because you didn't
feel like building it ahead of time.
So we're gonna build our
project ahead of time.
So when I say build,
we're gonna convert it from TypeScript
to regular JavaScript ahead of time.
And then we're gonna take
those JavaScript files and
that's what's gonna run on hipbone
render.com not the TypeScript files.
Okay, and we're gonna do that
just by making two commands.
So you can copy these commands
that I have in the scripts,
you can go to your package json and
you can add those into your scripts.
And the build script does
exactly what it sounds like.
It's going to build our app which is
going to transform it from TypeScript
to JavaScript.
And then start command is going to start
our server just like we've been doing
with dev, but not from the index.ts,
instead from the index.js,
the JavaScript version of it.
Okay.
And one last thing we need to do is we
need to make one small adjustment to our
tsconfig.
So I actually just have that here.
You can just copy this tsconfig.
We have to add an include.
We didn't have to add that before
because we're using ts-node,
but now that we're using
tsc to actually compile.
The way tsc which is
just like TypeScript CLI,
the way that works is,
if you do -p which I think stands for
project, and point it to a file,
a configuration file.
It doesn't know what TypeScript
files you want it to
compile unless you tell it to
explicitly saying the clue.
The alternative is you don't point it
to a tsconfig and you just say, Yeah,
just go here, source index.ts and
go compile that.
But then you don't get to customize the
compiler to do all these different things
because it'll just ignore this whole file.
So either you can use this file and
use include,
or you can't use this file at all and
you can just point to a file.
Yeah, we need that file.
So we're gonna point it there and
we're going to put an include.
And our includes, it's just saying
go here, get everything in source.
Okay, so once you have that,
let's try to build it.
So we should be able to say npm run build,
and
if everything went right
it should not be broken.
Okay, nothing is screaming at me.
So I hope all that means it built and
you can check by going to the top and
seeing a dist folder.
That dist folder should just have a ton of
JavaScript and JavaScript maps and stuff.
Yes.
>> I see Prisma is in
the dev dependencies.
How will it compile
the handlers on production?
>> So, a great question.
So Prisma is not the same
thing as @prisma/client.
Prisma is a CLI, which is only used for
Dev dependency things, like migrate,
anything you type in the terminal
that's what that's used for.
The Prisma client that we
import is a different package.
You can find that in the package json
under @prisma/client that is a dependency,
not a dev dependency.
So we're good there.
Also render.com is not like Heroku
where it's like Heroku made a bunch of
assumptions around your
environment variable.
It was like if you're in development
environment variable, or
I'm sorry if you're in
production environment variable,
we won't install your dev
dependencies Render is not like that.
Render actually doesn't
even install anything for
you at all you have to tell it to install,
so it's pretty raw.
But also, yeah it makes sense because
that's what you would do on your computer.
So, even if it was a Dev dependency
we could still install it and
use it if we needed to,
which we don't, but we could.